PU: API Explorer (#309)
bump-sh/docs: src/_product-updates/2024-12-16-api-explorer.md

Reviewer: Great content! Don't forget to change the link at the end 👀

---
title: Introducing the API Explorer
tags: [New]
image: /images/changelog/api-explorer.png
---
![api-explorer.png](/images/changelog/api-explorer.png)

We are happy to announce the launch of our API Explorer, our client’s most requested feature.

Sending a first request is the last mile of an API discovery. As setting up an API client or using cURL in a CLI can be an endeavour for API users, we made things easier, by integrating the API Explorer into your documentation portal. 

With the API Explorer, enable your users to go from API discovery to API usage, in one place.

## Send requests, right next to the API documentation

> It can be difficult for API consumers to understand the complete behavior of an API, that’s one of the reasons we make documentation. To ease the API’s discoverability in the Explorer, the request form is automatically generated with the right fields, based on the OpenAPI definition. No more Lorem Ipsum inside a date picker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be difficult for API consumers to understand the complete behavior of an API, that’s one of the reasons we make documentation. To ease the API’s discoverability in the Explorer, the request form is automatically generated with the right field types, based on the OpenAPI definition. No more Lorem Ipsum inside a date picker.
```

Readability is key in a context of discovery. A dedicated view for the API Explorer next to the documentation means focusing on what’s important: the customer’s request, and the API’s response, while keeping the documentation just one click away. 

![api-explorer-request.png](/images/changelog/api-explorer-request.png)

## Request sharing

> The request can be really valuable for API maintainers, to: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pre-defining and sharing a request can be really valuable for API maintainers, to: 
```

- onboard new clients with a ready-to-play getting started,
- facilitate customer support,
- detect inconsistencies between the API definition and the live API,
- help debugging, …

> API consumers now have a one-click sharing option, providing a unique link that will autofill the request form with the shared values, in the API Explorer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API Explorer users have a one-click sharing option, providing a unique link that will autofill the request form with the shared values. Let people reproduce the exact behavior you wanted to show them.
```
